Updates web font optimization guide with updated advice and Core Web Vitals guidance. (#8551)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/fast/reduce-webfont-size/index.md

* [WOFF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Open_Font_Format)
* [WOFF2](https://www.w3.org/TR/WOFF2/).

[WOFF](http://caniuse.com/#feat=woff) and [WOFF 2.0](http://caniuse.com/#feat=woff2) enjoy the widest support, and WOFF 2.0 is supported by all modern browsers (excluding Internet Explorer 11).

* Serve WOFF 2.0 variant to modern browsers.

> * If absolutely necessary&mdash;such as if you still need to support Internet Explorer 11, for example&mdash;serve the WOFF as a fallback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If absolutely necessary&mdash;such as if you still need to support Internet Explorer 11, for example&mdash;serve the WOFF as a fallback.
* Alternatively, consider not using web fonts for legacy browsers and falling back to the system fonts. This may be more performant for older, more constrained, devices as well.
```

* Since WOFF and WOFF 2.0 cover all bases for modern and legacy browsers still in use, use of EOT and TTF are no longer necessary. In fact, shipping EOT and TTF fonts will result in long web font download times.

### Web fonts and compression

> A font is a collection of glyphs, each of which is a set of paths describing the letter form. Older formats can be compressed further using [GZIP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip) or [Brotli](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brotli), but you should no longer concern yourself with these formats, less alone compressing them.

Author: Good call.

Both WOFF and WOFF 2.0 have built-in compression. WOFF 2.0's internal compression uses Brotli, and can't be compressed any further by supported compression algorithms used on the web. For more information, see [the WOFF 2.0 evaluation report](http://www.w3.org/TR/WOFF20ER/).

> {% Aside %}

Reviewer: I'd remove this whole aside:

```suggestion
```

> If WOFF is necessary to backfill support for browsers that don't support WOFF 2.0, you _can_ compress WOFF fonts using Brotli, but the savings are very likely not enough to justify the processing cost.
> {% endAside %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  font-style: normal;
  font-weight: 400;
  src: local('Awesome Font'),
       url('/fonts/awesome.woff2') format('woff2'),
       /* Only serve WOFF is necessary. Otherwise,
          WOFF 2.0 is fine by itself. */
       url('/fonts/awesome.woff') format('woff');
}

@font-face {
  font-family: 'Awesome Font';
  font-style: italic;
  font-weight: 400;
  src: local('Awesome Font Italic'),
       url('/fonts/awesome-i.woff2') format('woff2'),
       url('/fonts/awesome-i.woff') format('woff');
}
```

First, note that the above examples define a single _Awesome Font_ family with two styles normal and _italic_), each of which points to a different set of font resources. In turn, each `src` descriptor contains a prioritized, comma-separated list of resource variants:

* The `local()` directive allows you to reference, load, and use locally installed fonts. If the user already has the font installed on their system, this bypasses the network entirely, and is the fastest.
* The `url()` directive allows you to load external fonts, and are allowed to contain an optional `format()` hint indicating the format of the font referenced by the provided URL.

{% Aside %}

> Unless you're referencing one of the default system fonts, it is rare for the user to have it locally installed, especially on mobile devices, where it is effectively impossible to "install" additional fonts. You should always start with a `local()` entry "just in case," and then provide a list of `url()` entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless you're referencing one of the default system fonts, it is rare for the user to have it locally installed, especially on mobile devices, where it is effectively impossible to "install" additional fonts. Even if you start with a `local()` entry, you should always provide a list of `url()` entries for those that do not have it downloaded.
```

1. The browser performs page layout and determines which font variants are required to render the specified text on the page. Fonts that aren't part of the page's [CSS Object Model (CSSOM)](/critical-rendering-path-constructing-the-object-model/#css-object-model-cssom) are not downloaded by the browser, as they are not required.
2. For each required font, the browser checks if the font is available locally.
3. If the font is not available locally, the browser iterates over external definitions:
  * If a format hint is present, the browser checks if it supports the hint before initiating the download. If the browser doesn't support the hint, the browser advances to the next one.
  * If no format hint is present, the browser downloads the resource.

The combination of local and external directives with appropriate format hints allows you to specify all of the available font formats and let the browser handle the rest. The browser determines which resources are required and selects the optimal format.

> {% Aside %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside 'important' %}
```

Nearly all browsers [support `unicode-range`](https://caniuse.com/font-unicode-range). For compatibility with older browsers you may need to fall back to "manual subsetting". In this case you have to fall back to providing a single font resource that contains all the necessary subsets and hide the rest from the browser. For example, if the page is only using Latin characters, then you can strip other glyphs and serve that particular subset as a standalone resource.

1. **Determine which subsets are needed:**
   * If the browser supports unicode-range subsetting, then it will automatically select the right subset. The page just needs to provide the subset files and specify appropriate unicode-ranges in the `@font-face` rules.
   * If the browser doesn't support unicode-range subsetting, then the page needs to hide all unnecessary subsets; that is, the developer must specify the required subsets.
1. **Generate font subsets:**
   - Use the open-source [pyftsubset tool](https://github.com/behdad/fonttools/) to subset and optimize your fonts.

>    - Some font servers—such as Google Font—will automatically subset by default.

Reviewer: Oops - typo:

```suggestion
   - Some font servers—such as Google Fonts—will automatically subset by default.
```

Nearly all browsers [support `unicode-range`](https://caniuse.com/font-unicode-range). For compatibility with older browsers you may need to fall back to "manual subsetting". In this case you have to fall back to providing a single font resource that contains all the necessary subsets and hide the rest from the browser. For example, if the page is only using Latin characters, then you can strip other glyphs and serve that particular subset as a standalone resource.

1. **Determine which subsets are needed:**
   * If the browser supports unicode-range subsetting, then it will automatically select the right subset. The page just needs to provide the subset files and specify appropriate unicode-ranges in the `@font-face` rules.
   * If the browser doesn't support unicode-range subsetting, then the page needs to hide all unnecessary subsets; that is, the developer must specify the required subsets.
1. **Generate font subsets:**
   - Use the open-source [pyftsubset tool](https://github.com/behdad/fonttools/) to subset and optimize your fonts.

>    - Some font services allow manual subsetting via custom query parameters, which you can use to manually specify the required subset for your page. Consult the documentation from your font provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Some font servers—such as Google Font—will automatically subset by default.
   - Some font services allow manual subsetting via custom query parameters, which you can use to manually specify the required subset for your page. Consult the documentation from your font provider.
```

### Font selection and synthesis

Each font family may be composed of multiple stylistic variants (regular, bold, italic) and multiple weights for each style. Each of which, in turn, may contain very different glyph shapes&mdash;for example, different spacing, sizing, or a different shape altogether.

<figure>
  {% Img src="image/admin/FNtAc2xRmx2MuUt2MADj.png", alt="Font weights", width="697", height="127" %}
</figure>

The above diagram illustrates a font family that offers three different bold weights:

- 400 (regular).
- 700 (bold).
- 900 (extra bold).

All other in-between variants (indicated in gray) are automatically mapped to the closest variant by the browser.

> <blockquote>

Reviewer: There is a template for this btw (though it doesn't add the `rel="noopener"):

```suggestion
{% blockquote '[CSS font matching algorithm](http://www.w3.org/TR/css3-fonts/#font-matching-algorithm)' %}
```

>   <p>
>     When a weight is specified for which no face exists, a face with a nearby weight is used. In general, bold weights map to faces with heavier weights and light weights map to faces with lighter weights.
>   </p>
>   <cite>
>     <a rel="noopener" href="http://www.w3.org/TR/css3-fonts/#font-matching-algorithm">CSS font matching algorithm</a>
>   </cite>
> </blockquote>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a weight is specified for which no face exists, a face with a nearby weight is used. In general, bold weights map to faces with heavier weights and light weights map to faces with lighter weights.
{% endBlockquote %}
```

- **Avoid legacy formats if possible:** EOT, TTF, and WOFF formats are larger than WOFF 2.0. EOT and TTF are strictly unnecessary formats, where as WOFF may be acceptable if you need to support Internet Explorer 11. If you're only target modern browsers, using WOFF 2.0 only is the simplest and most performant option.
- **Subset your font resources:** many fonts can be subset, or split into multiple unicode-ranges to deliver just the glyphs that a particular page requires. This reduces the file size and improves the download speed of the resource. However, when defining the subsets, be careful to optimize for font re-use. For example, don't download a different but overlapping set of characters on each page. A
good practice is to subset based on script: for example, Latin, and Cyrillic.
- **Give precedence to `local()` in your `src` list:** listing `local('Font Name')` first in your `src` list ensures that HTTP requests aren't made for fonts that are already installed.
- **Use [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview/)** to test for [text compression](/uses-text-compression/).

## Effects on Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) and Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)

> Depending on your page's content, text nodes can be considered candidates for [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](/lcp/). It's therefore vital to ensure your web fonts are as small as possible by following the advice in this article so that your users will see the text on your page as soon as they possibly can.

Reviewer: I'd reference https://web.dev/optimize-webfont-loading/ somewhere in here

> If you're concerned that, despite your optimization efforts, page text might take too long to appear because of large web font resource, the `font-display` property has a number of settings that can help you to avoid invisible text while a font is downloading. However, using the `swap` value may cause significant layout shifts that affect your site's [Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)](/cls/). Consider using the `optional` or `fallback` values if possible.

Reviewer: Perhaps reference https://web.dev/avoid-invisible-text/ in here?
